# trait


<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="https://github.com/cjGO/chewc/blob/main/chewc/trait.py#L126"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### add_trait_a

>  add_trait_a (key:<function PRNGKey>, sim_param:chewc.sp.SimParam,
>                   n_qtl_per_chr:int, mean:jaxtyping.Float[Array,'nTraits'],
>                   var:jaxtyping.Float[Array,'nTraits'], cor_a:Optional[jaxtypi
>                   ng.Float[Array,'nTraitsnTraits']]=None)

\*Adds one or more new additive traits to the simulation parameters by
creating a vectorized TraitCollection object.

This function calculates the genetic effects and intercepts for each
trait, then stacks them into single JAX arrays within a TraitCollection.
This data structure is designed for efficient, JIT-compatible
computation on a GPU.\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="https://github.com/cjGO/chewc/blob/main/chewc/trait.py#L57"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### TraitCollection

>  TraitCollection (loci_loc:jaxtyping.Int[Array,'nLoci'],
>                       add_eff:jaxtyping.Float[Array,'nTraitsnLoci'],
>                       intercept:jaxtyping.Float[Array,'nTraits'])

*A JAX-native container for all trait parameters, designed for
vectorization.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="https://github.com/cjGO/chewc/blob/main/chewc/trait.py#L43"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### TraitA

>  TraitA (loci_per_chr:jaxtyping.Int[Array,'nChr'],
>              loci_loc:jaxtyping.Int[Array,'nLoci'], name:str,
>              add_eff:jaxtyping.Float[Array,'nLoci'], intercept:float=0.0)

\*Defines an additive trait, extending LociMap with genetic effect
parameters.

Attributes: add_eff (Float\[Array, “nLoci”\]): The additive effect for
each locus. intercept (float): A global value added to the genetic value
of all individuals for this trait, used to adjust the trait mean.\*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="https://github.com/cjGO/chewc/blob/main/chewc/trait.py#L23"
target="_blank" style="float:right; font-size:smaller">source</a>

### LociMap

>  LociMap (loci_per_chr:jaxtyping.Int[Array,'nChr'],
>               loci_loc:jaxtyping.Int[Array,'nLoci'], name:str)

\*Defines a set of loci on the genome. Serves as a base class for SNP
chips and Traits. This is a JAX-native Pytree, making it compatible with
JIT compilation.

Attributes: loci_per_chr (Int\[Array, “nChr”\]): The number of loci on
each chromosome. loci_loc (Int\[Array, “nLoci”\]): The specific indices
of the loci on the genetic map. name (str): The name of this loci map
(e.g., “Trait1”, “Chip1”). Note: String attributes make this class a
“static” Pytree.\*
